# TWIR Deploy NotifyThis repository contains a small tool and workflow for sending summaries of the latest **This Week in Rust** post to Telegram.The GitHub Actions workflow checks out the [`rust-lang/this-week-in-rust`](https://github.com/rust-lang/this-week-in-rust) repository and detects the newest Markdown file in its `content` directory. If a new issue is found, it is parsed with the Rust application in `src/main.rs`, and the generated message is posted to the configured Telegram chat. Each section becomes an individual Telegram post, and sections or overly long lines exceeding Telegram's size limit are automatically split.The parser now derives the HTML link from the issue number and date and appends it at the end of each Telegram message.A single GitHub release tagged `latest` always provides the most recent binary.## ToolchainAll GitHub Actions workflows read the pinned channel from `rust-toolchain.toml` and install the required `clippy` and `rustfmt` components automatically. Rust toolchain updates are handled by Dependabot (rust-toolchain ecosystem) which opens a pull request when a new stable compiler version is available. A separate workflow enables auto-merge for Dependabot PRs, so the update lands automatically after CI passes. If the components are not installed automatically, run:```bashrustup component add clippy rustfmt```To run the workflow locally you must clone the `this-week-in-rust` repository into a `twir` subdirectory:```bashgit clone --depth 1 --filter=blob:none --sparse \  https://github.com/rust-lang/this-week-in-rust twircd twir && git sparse-checkout set contentcd ..```After that you can run the tool manually with:```bashcargo run --bin twir-deploy-notify -- twir/content/<file-name>.md```Pass `--plain` to generate plain text output. Tables are now rendered withoutcode fences or extra padding by default.All files matching `output_*.md` in the current directory are removed before thenew posts are written.Set `RUST_LOG=info` to see detailed logs including Telegram API responses:```bashRUST_LOG=info cargo run --bin twir-deploy-notify -- twir/content/<file-name>.md```## Cargo profilesThe project defines custom profiles in `Cargo.toml` that optimize for quickiteration. Development and test builds use `opt-level = 0` with incrementalcompilation enabled. Release builds set `opt-level = 1`, keep incrementalcompilation, and increase `codegen-units` to `16`.The `.cargo/config.toml` file adds `-C target-cpu=native` to all builds so localcompilations target the current machine's CPU features.## ConfigurationThe application expects several environment variables when sending posts toTelegram:- `DEV_BOT_TOKEN` and `DEV_CHAT_ID` – credentials for the developer chat.- `PROD_BOT_TOKEN` and `PROD_CHAT_ID` – credentials for the production chat.  Numeric IDs are automatically prefixed with `-100` when sending requests to  Telegram.- `TWIR_SKIP_DEVELOPER_SEND` – optional boolean flag (`true`, `false`, `1`,  `0`, etc.) that skips the developer send. Used by the production workflow  because it already dispatched a developer run in a separate job.- `TWIR_SKIP_PRODUCTION_SEND` – optional boolean flag that skips the production  send. The developer workflow enables it to avoid double-posting when only the  developer chat should receive messages.If neither pair is fully configured, the CLI terminates with an error. Partialconfiguration (setting only one variable from a pair) is also treated as anerror and stops the run with an actionable log message.The first sent message is automatically pinned, and the service notification isremoved.Production runs store the last processed file in `last_sent.txt` as an artifact and download it on the next run. The workflow now fails if this artifact cannot be retrieved.Telegram acknowledgements are validated directly by the CLI, and the `prod.yml`workflow waits for the developer delivery job to succeed before the productionrun starts. The workflow runs hourly on the zeroth minute and publishes thelatest post directly to the main chat. The `retro.yml` workflow builds posts for the last ten issues and uploadsthem as artifacts. All posts are parsed at runtime using the shared parser and generator.## DevelopmentContinuous integration runs `cargo machete` to verify that `Cargo.toml` lists only used dependencies. Run this command locally before opening a pull request.Install it with `cargo install cargo-machete` if it is not available.Documentation in `DOCS/` is validated with `cargo run --bin check-docs`, which parses files using [`pulldown-cmark`](https://crates.io/crates/pulldown-cmark).Generated Telegram posts are verified with the shared `validator` module.Security checks using `cargo-audit` can be enabled in the same way by setting the `run_audit` input.### Auto mergePull requests targeting the `main` branch are merged automatically once all CIchecks have completed. The `automerge.yml` workflow waits for every check run onthe pull request commit to finish and fails only if a run reports a non-successconclusion. Checks that are skipped or marked as neutral do not block merging,so partially skipped pipelines can still be merged.## LicenseThis project is distributed under the "QQRM LAPOCHKA v1.0 License (AI-first Vibecoder)" in `LICENSE_QQRM_LAPOCHKA`.Contributors must generate changes via an AI agent.Manual code submissions may still be humorously called a "skill issue" by the community.
